
= Black Holes vs Bose-Einstein Condensates =

== Original ==
https://github.com/discoleo/R/tree/master/Physics%20&%20Chemistry/BlackHoles_vs_BoseEinsteinCondensates.wiki


== Theory ==

'''Black Holes''' are likely a mathematical artifact:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Division_by_zero

'''Bose-Einstein condensates''' offer probably a much better description, including a reasonable mathematical description.

=== Gravity ===

'''Gravity:''' is a mass effect originating from polarized nuclei. The Higgs boson is also an artifact.

Atomic nuclei carry de facto all mass. Gravity must therefore be directly related to the atomic nucleus. The polarized nuclei can interact in a mass effect that becomes manifest as gravity. This "gravity" obeys a similar law to Gauss' law computed outside a sphere and decreases with R^2.


== History ==
Building an entire theory around a division by zero should make everyone doubt the theory.

'''Alternative:''' The first true alternative emerged when I read an article in Nature regarding the creation of a Bose-Einstein condensate.
: E.A. Donley et al. Dynamics of collapsing and exploding Bose-Einstein condensates. Nature 412, 19-JUL-2001, p295-299.

Although I contacted multiple physicists with these ideas (including the late Stephen Hawkins), there was little interest in non-mainstream ideas. Such ideas were/are likely difficult to publish in the literature as well.

'''Note to Wikipedia Editors:''' Nevertheless, it may be still warranted to search the literature, because of the huge impact on many important areas of physics. A Bose-Einstein condensate is a much better description than a mathematical division by zero. (The note was deleted from the Wikipedia Talk page, but is still available here.)


= Stars =

== Black-Body radiation ==

The origin of the 5700 K black-body radiation in the sun is probably '''NOT''' metallic hydrogen (Ref. Robitaille 1). Instead, it is more likely a true metal like Wolfram or Osmium.

The high melting points of Wolfram and Osmium and the high density of Osmium indicate a large number of metal-bond type "electrons" in the outer shells, which can interact quasi-diffusely with radiation: the black-body effect in the sun is probably produced by such atoms.

The boiling points of Wolfram, Rhenium and Osmium are all around 5700 K: this may further indicate that a mixture of these metals functions as a quasi-"atomic"-black body in the sun. See also:
:[https://github.com/discoleo/R/blob/master/Chemistry/Chemistry.NuclearStructure.wiki]

:Note:
:The structure may be more complex than "pure atoms" due to the high pressure inside the sun.

== Super-Fission ==

Stars may function by extreme fission. These fission reactions split heavy atoms into (much) smaller atoms: the fission is much more extensive than fission events performed on earth.

These fission events generate large amounts of protons (hydrogen) and helium nucleons. These nucleons may be responsible for the unusual spectral absorption bands, as they arise through extreme fission events and are not merely bystanders.


== Star Formation ==

If fission drives the stars, then any mechanism of gas-cloud collapse makes no sense. An alternative mechanism is presented below. Unlike classic theories (see Ref. Robitaille 4), the nebula is the product of initial low-level fission reactions, not the source of the star.

Everything starts from a massive proto-solid body consisting of heavy nuclei: this body may result from a super-massive "black hole". Extreme gravity maintains the stability of super-heavy atoms.

For some unknown reason the solid body starts to fragment and to disintegrate. The heavy atoms become unstable and start to fission by alpha and beta decay. This process generates large amounts of hydrogen (and possibly some helium) which diffuses away and generates the gas nebula.

The solid-body fragments start separating more and more, which further reduces the gravitational field acting on the body. This step is ambiguous from a physical perspective. However, once fission reaches a critical density, an intensive and sustained fission process is initiated: a star is born.

; Open Questions:
Why would a massive solid body fragment and what causes the fragments to separate?
Alternatively: What is the initiating step?



# PM Robitaille: Sky Scolar. What is the Sun Made Of? Evidence from the Solar Spectrum!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fynuCLQp1TE

# PM Robitaille. A Thermodynamic History of the Solar Constitution — II: The Theory of a Gaseous Sun and Jeans’ Failed Liquid Alternative. Progress Physics (2011)
https://www.ptep-online.com/2011/PP-26-06.PDF

# JH Jeans. Astronomy and Cosmogony. Cambridge University Press (1928)

# PM Robitaille: Sky Scolar. A Star is Born: Gravitational "Collapse" vs Condensation Reactions!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kJf0MX96ERY

