
= Nuclear Structure =

== Wolfram Paradox ==

=== Melting Point ===
: Melting point: 3422 C;
: Boiling point: 5555 C;

However, the reported electron shell of Wolfram is: ''6s2 4f14 5d4''. This implies that only 4 of the d-orbitals are available to form metallic bonds.

The alternative ''6s1 5d5'' hybridization could allow Wolfram to use 6 electrons for the metallic bonds.

=== Group ===
The other transitional metals in this group (Cr, Mo) have the ''s1 d5'' electronic configuration.

This also supports the higher melting points compared to the elements in the next group, which have the ''s2 d5'' configuration:

: Cr: 1907 C vs Mn: 1246 C.
: Mo: 2623 C vs Tc: 2157 C.
: W: 3422 C vs Re: 3185 C.

In addition, the spherical symmetry of the s orbital may create stronger metallic bonds than the bonds formed by pure d-orbitals.

Note 1: the melting point of Rhenium is still 200 C below that of Wolfram. The spherical symmetry of the s orbital may create a stronger bond than the bonds formed by pure d-orbitals.

Note 2: there are less metallic bonds in the melted metals. Therefore, the electronic structure may be slightly different in melted (or in gaseous) wolfram. But the melting temperature strongly suggests that metallic Wolfram has the ''s1 d5'' electronic configuration.

== Metal Bonds ==
The s-orbitals have spherical symmetry. While the electron-density over the surface area may be lower than for other symmetries, the full area of the s-orbital becomes available for metal-bonds. The s-orbitals may play therefore an important role in metal-bonds, while the strength of the covalent bonds decreases markedly with increasing shell number.

The surface area vs the density over the surface area may offer explanations for the strong reactivity and strong ionic bonds of alkali metals, but the very weak ''metal-bonds'' in these metals (low melting points, low strength, due to only 1 electron covering the entire area of the sphere).

